= mta-sms

== DESCRIPTION

mta-sms is an HTTP server that looks up MTA Metro-North Railroad timetables.
Its single endpoint responds to requests like the ones Twilio sends for
incoming SMS messages (https://www.twilio.com/docs/sms/twiml).

== SYNOPSIS

Run the server with <tt>rackup</tt>

  ONLINE=true bundle exec rackup

== INTENTS

This server responds to all POST requests the same way. Messages are routed to one of several "intents" based on the contents of the message. An intent represents one complete interaction with this server, including any text message response.

=== Search

The message body should contain two Metro-North station names separated by a
<tt>'/'</tt> (forward slash) character. For example, this cURL command line is
well-formed:

  curl localhost/ --data 'Body=ludlow / spuyten duyvil'

This intent does some fuzzy searching of the station names given on this MTA
Web page: http://as0.mta.info/mnr/schedules/sched_form.cfm, so you could do
something like <tt>'Body=ludl / sptn dvl'</tt>.

If successful, the response is a <tt>text/plain</tt> message listing the
upcoming trains between the given stations.

=== SaveFavorite

The message body should start either with the word <tt>'save'</tt> or the
<tt>'+'</tt> (plus) character, followed by a station pair as described in the
Search intent. After looking up the canonical station names, this intent stores
this station pair in a dictionary keyed by the <tt>Sender</tt> request
parameter. For example, this cURL command line is well-formed:

  curl localhost/
    --data 'Sender=3528625309'
    --data-urlencode 'Body=+ new haven / grand central'

If successful, the response is a <tt>text/plain</tt> message lising the station
pair that was saved.

=== RetrieveFavorite

The message body should either be the word <tt>'in'</tt> or <tt>'out'</tt>.
This intent looks up a previously-saved station pair by the <tt>Sender</tt>
request parameter and executes the Search intent on it. If the body is
<tt>'in'</tt>, the search is performed using the order in which the favorite
was saved. If the body is <tt>'out'</tt>, the search is performed with that
order reversed.

For example:

  curl localhost/
    --data 'Sender=3528675309'
    --data 'Body=save spuyten duyvil / grand central'
  #=> Saved favorite: SPUYTEN DUYVIL -> GRAND CENTRAL

  curl localhost/
    --data 'Sender=3528675309'
    --data 'Body=in'
  #=> SPUYTEN DUYVIL -> GRAND CENTRAL [...]

  curl localhost/
    --data 'Sender=3528675309'
    --data 'Body=out'
  #=> GRAND CENTRAL -> SPUYTEN DUYVIL [...]


== ENVIRONMENT

[ONLINE]

  if truthy, use the real MTA Web site to scrape timetables. else, use a dummy
  timetable

== WHY

I use a phone that only has voice, SMS and bad MMS. The MTA has a rich SMS
interface for the bus system at http://bustime.mta.info/wiki/Help/SMSSearching,
but it doesn't seem to have one for anything else.

This code scrapes HTML pages. I tried to find a GTFS API, but even with an MTA
developer account I haven't been able to access any Metro-North data.

== TODO

- rate limit by phone number

- allow searching arbitrary times in the future

- use a programmatic API instead of scraping HTML
